readme

# actigraph and fitbit
The sample data provided in the **actigraph and fitbit** folder is from a previous study that looked at concurrent measures from healthy young adults over the course of two weeks.  This sample is of four de-identified participants.

Files in each directory are prefaced by the the participant ID number.

## Actigraph Paradigm
The actigraph data presented here has been generated by ActiLife software.  This software, owned and maintained by ActiGraph, down samples the original acceleration measures to minute level summaries.  Starting on line 11, there are 9 columns of data.  Data csvs are structured as follows:

| row | 						| | | | | | | |
|---|---------------------------|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|
| 1 | Export Info				| | | | | | | |
| 2 | Serial Number 			| | | | | | | |
| 3 | Start Time				| | | | | | | |
| 4 | Start Date				| | | | | | | |
| 5 | Epoch Period (hh:mm:ss)	| | | | | | | |
| 6 | Download Time				| | | | | | | |
| 7 | Download Date				| | | | | | | |
| 8 | Current Memory Address	| | | | | | | |
| 9 | Battery and Mode			| | | | | | | |
| 10 |--------------------		| | | | | | | |
| 11 | Axis1 | Axis2 | Axis3 | Steps | Lux | IncOff | IncStand | IncSit | IncLie |

Where:

- Axis1 is the sum vector counts on the first axis (x) in that epoch period
- Axis2 is the sum vector counts on the second axis (y) in that epoch period
- Axis3 is the sum vector counts on the third axis (z) in that epoch period
- Steps is the steps counted in that epoch period
- Lux is the cumulative luminosity in that epoch period
- IncOff is the number of seconds that the device was likely off, in that epoch period
- IncStand is the estimated number of seconds that the participant was standing
- IncSit is the estimated number of seconds that the participant was sitting
- IncLie is the estimated number of seconds that the participant was lying down

Note, Inc refers to measures from the inclinometer, derived from the accelerometer.  IncOff, IncStand, IncSit, and IncLie should sum to 60 seconds if the epoch was set to one minute (00:01:00).

## Fitbit Paradigm
The fitbit data presented here is an export from Fitabase, a third party data broker.  All measures were recorded at the minute level; the csvs are structured as follows:

| row | 			| | | | | | |
|---|---------------|-|-|-|-|-|-|
| 1 | Header		| | | | | | |
| 2 | Activity Hour	| measure00 | measure01 | measure02 | ... | measure58 | measure59 |

Where:

- Activity Hour is the date (MM/DD/YYYY) and time (HR:MM:SS AM/PM) of measures on this line
- measure00 is the measure (calories, intensities, METs, or steps) on the hour
- measure01 is the measure at 1 minute past the hour
- measure02 is the measure at 2 minutes past the hour
- ...
- measure58 is the measure at 58 minutes past the hour
- measure59 is the measure at 59 minutes past the hour

# multiyear

In this directory (**multiyear**) you will find measures of calories, intensities, steps, and METs as made over the duration of approximately two years. There are ten file formats in this directory.

## dailyCalories

| row |     |     |
|-----|-----|-----|
| 1 | Header | |
| 2 | ActivityDay | Calories |

Where:

- ActivityDay is the date (MM:DD:YYYY)
- Calories is the total number of calories expended that day

## dailyIntensities

| row |     |     |
|-----|-----|-----|
| 1 | Header | |
| 2 | ActivityDay | SedentaryMinutes | LightlyActiveMinutes | FairlyActiveMinutes | VeryActiveMinutes | SedintaryActiveDistance | LightActiveDistance | ModeratelyActiveDistance | VeryActiveDistance |

Where:

- ActivityDay is the date (MM:DD:YYYY)
- SedentaryMinutes, LightlyActiveMinutes, FairlyActiveMinutes, VeryActiveMinutes reflects the total number of minutes in Sedentary, Lightly, Fairly (moderate), or Very active intensities.  On days where these four columns sum to less than 1440 minutes, it can be assumed that the subject did not wear their Fitbit for the entire day.
- SedintaryActiveDistance, LightActiveDistance, ModeratelyActiveDistance, VeryActiveDistance reflects the distance traveled when in those activity levels.  This is assumed to be reported in kilometers, and is dependent on an assumed stride length.

## dailySteps

| row |     |     |
|-----|-----|-----|
| 1 | Header | |
| 2 | ActivityDay | StepTotal |

Where:

- ActivityDay is the date (MM:DD:YYYY)
- StepTotal is the total number of steps taken (measured) that day

## hourlyCalories

| row |     |     |
|-----|-----|-----|
| 1 | Header | |
| 2 | ActivityHour | Calories |

Where:

- ActivityHour is the date-time (MM:DD:YYYY HH:MM:SS AM/PM)
- Calories is the total number of calories expended during that hour

## hourlyIntensities

| row |     |     |     |
|-----|-----|-----|-----|
| 1 | Header | | |
| 2 | ActivityHour | TotalIntensity | AverageIntensity |

Where:

- ActivityHour is the date-time (MM:DD:YYYY HH:MM:SS AM/PM)
- TotalIntensity is the dot product of minutes in sedentary, light, moderate, and very active intensity levels with the corresponding intensity score ([0 1 2 3] correspondingly)
- AverageIntensity is the mean intensity score for all minutes

## hourlySteps

| row |     |     |
|-----|-----|-----|
| 1 | Header | |
| 2 | ActivityHour | StepTotal |

Where:

- ActivityHour is the date-time (MM:DD:YYYY HH:MM:SS AM/PM)
- StepTotal is the total number of steps taken during that hour

## minuteMeasure

The minute level csvs in this directory follow the same paradigm as the Fitbit Paradigm from the **actigraph and fitbit** directory.